content/ariel-balter-resume.md, before:

# **Summary**

Scientist and engineer with a Ph.D. in physics and extensive experience in data engineering and biomedical data science, including bioinformatics and biostatistics. Specializes in complex data curation, analysis pipeline development on high-performance computing clusters, and cloud-based computational infrastructure. Dedicated to leveraging data to address real-world challenges.

# Work Experience

## **Founder / Director**

### Autism All Grown Up ([https://aagu.org](https://aagu.org))  11/2024 \- Present

* Founded and directs a nonprofit focused on the unmet needs of Autistic adults in Oregon, Securing over $60k of funding in less than six months.

* Coordinates writing and submitting grants, 20 in five months.

* Builds partnerships with community organizations by collaborating on shared interests and goals.

* Coordinates employees and volunteers.

* Designs and manages programs.

## **Biomedical Data Scientist**

### Freelancer  08/2022 \- 12/2023

* Worked with collaborators to launch a corporate-academic collaborative research project integrating multiple large-scale public genomic data sets into a graph database suitable for machine learning, oncology, and oncological drug repurposing.

* Performed analysis to assess overexpressed proteins related to toxic response from exercise in a human study.

## **Senior Research Engineer**

### OHSU | Center for Health Systems Effectiveness      11/2022 \- 10/2023

* Reduced compute time of a data analysis pipeline for calculating quality measures by 90% by parallelizing and porting to a high-performance computing (HPC) SLURM cluster, increasing researchers' access to data.

* Increased the performance of an ETL pipeline for staging Medicare claims data by 50% by removing bottlenecks and removing unnecessary steps.

* Championed better package management by transitioning the research group to the Conda package manager, resulting in 80% fewer package-related programming bottlenecks and reduced sysadmin time.

* Wrote comprehensive user documentation and training for pipeline usage published on enterprise GitHub.

* Supported researchers and data engineers through training and mentorship in R programming, package management, and high-performance computing best practices.

## **Bioinformatics Scientist**

### Providence | Earl A. Chiles Research Institute      08/2020 \- 06/2022

* Created a reproducible ETL pipeline for generating a drug-repurposing graph database that cleans, harmonizes, and processes over four billion rows of data from 10 different cancer databases, including clinical variants, clinical tumor sequencing data, tumor cell-line drug response data, variant allele frequencies, and gene essentiality.

* Located errors in combined WES tumor variant calls and suggested methods to resolve them.

* Scaled up ETL and analysis pipelines for WES and WGS variant analysis using BigQuery and Google Cloud Platform.

* Helped automate dockerized workflows for RNA-Seq analysis on the Google Cloud Platform.

## **Computational Biologist**

### OHSU | Casey Eye Institute  07/2018 \- 04/2020

* Extracted obscured information from messy human microbiome data by fine-tuning statistical models.

* Created a reproducible notebook-based pipeline for automated statistical analysis with custom parameters on a high-performance computing cluster and produced automated reports.

* Analyzed 16-S rRNA microbiome sequencing data by performing phylogenetic associations, diversity analysis, and multiple statistical tests to identify significant associations with age-related macular degeneration, contributing to two publications.

## **Computational Biologist**

### Oregon Health & Science University, Bioinformatics Core     11/2015 \- 06/2017

* Automated image region selection for an IHC image analysis pipeline, increasing throughput 100x and allowing high-throughput analysis for cancer research.

* Created a templated and automated pipeline to perform parameterized ChIP-Seq analysis on a high-performance computing cluster and generate automated reports.

* Programmed custom LIMS dashboard elements using R and Javascript (Plotly) for real-time visualization of cancer SMMART trials.

* Installed and managed research-oriented Linux servers and performed systems administration.

* Conducted RNA-Seq analysis.

* Mentored and trained coworkers in programming and high-performance computing.

## **IT Support Technician**

### Volpentest HAMMER Federal Training Center   08/2014 \- 11/2015

* Helped develop a ColdFusion website to publish and schedule safety courses to be used on the Hanford site.

* Vetted, selected, and managed a SAAS library management system.

* Built and managed two MS Access databases with entry forms, comprehensive reports, and a macro to email library users about their accounts.

# Education

### AAS in Computer Science     2013

Columbia Basin College

### Ph.D. in Physics    2005

Indiana University Bloomington

### Bachelor of Science in Physics      1998

The Evergreen State College

# Certifications

### Human Subjects Research (HSR)       11/2022 \- 11/2025

### Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR)       11/2022 \- 11/2025

### Research Investigators and Key Personnel and IRB Members.   01/2021 \- 01/2024

# Awards & Scholarships

### Outstanding Graduate Student in Research    2005

Indiana University

# Skills

**Data Science & Engineering:** ETL, Data harmonization, SQL, Cloud (GCP), Docker, HPC (SLURM), Jupyter Notebooks, Graphics and visualization, Documentation. Containerized workflows (Docker, Singularity), statistical analysis and modeling, and mathematical modeling.

**Bioinformatics, Computational Biology,  & Genomics:** DNA/RNA sequencing (WES, WGS, DNA-Seq, RNA-Seq, ChIP-Seq, 16s rRNA), Variant calling, Microbiome analysis, Transcriptomics, DepMap, ClinVar, KEGG.

**Programming & Development:** *Expert***:** R, Bash; *Strong***:** Python, SQL, HTML/CSS/JS; *Familiar***:** Matlab, C++, Java.

**Healthcare Analytics:** ICD-10, CPT, HCPCS, CMS, SNOMED, Medicaid claims, Quality Metrics (HEDIS).

**Linux & Systems Administration:** Server configuration, Web servers, Package management, SLURM, HTCondor.

Commit message:

- Big changes to resume - Plugin for right-aligned dates - Updated CSS - Replaces CV with Publications

content/ariel-balter-resume.md, after:

# **Summary**

Scientist and engineer with a Ph.D. in physics and extensive experience in data engineering and biomedical data science, including bioinformatics and biostatistics. Specializes in complex data curation, analysis pipeline development on high-performance computing clusters, and cloud-based computational infrastructure. Dedicated to leveraging data to address real-world challenges.

# Work Experience

## **Founder / Director**

### Autism All Grown Up ([https://aagu.org](https://aagu.org)) 11/2024 \- Present</span>

* Founded and directs a nonprofit focused on the unmet needs of Autistic adults in Oregon, Securing over $60k of funding in less than six months.

* Coordinates writing and submitting grants, 20 in five months.

* Builds partnerships with community organizations by collaborating on shared interests and goals.

* Coordinates employees and volunteers.

* Designs and manages programs.

## **Biomedical Data Scientist**

### Freelancer 08/2022 \- 12/2023

* Worked with collaborators to launch a corporate-academic collaborative research project integrating multiple large-scale public genomic data sets into a graph database suitable for machine learning, oncology, and oncological drug repurposing.

* Performed analysis to assess overexpressed proteins related to toxic response from exercise in a human study.

## **Senior Research Engineer**

### OHSU | Center for Health Systems Effectiveness 11/2022 \- 10/2023

* Reduced compute time of a data analysis pipeline for calculating quality measures by 90% by parallelizing and porting to a high-performance computing (HPC) SLURM cluster, increasing researchers' access to data.

* Increased the performance of an ETL pipeline for staging Medicare claims data by 50% by removing bottlenecks and removing unnecessary steps.

* Championed better package management by transitioning the research group to the Conda package manager, resulting in 80% fewer package-related programming bottlenecks and reduced sysadmin time.

* Wrote comprehensive user documentation and training for pipeline usage published on enterprise GitHub.

* Supported researchers and data engineers through training and mentorship in R programming, package management, and high-performance computing best practices.

## **Bioinformatics Scientist**

### Providence | Earl A. Chiles Research Institute 08/2020 \- 06/2022

* Created a reproducible ETL pipeline for generating a drug-repurposing graph database that cleans, harmonizes, and processes over four billion rows of data from 10 different cancer databases, including clinical variants, clinical tumor sequencing data, tumor cell-line drug response data, variant allele frequencies, and gene essentiality.

* Located errors in combined WES tumor variant calls and suggested methods to resolve them.

* Scaled up ETL and analysis pipelines for WES and WGS variant analysis using BigQuery and Google Cloud Platform.

* Helped automate dockerized workflows for RNA-Seq analysis on the Google Cloud Platform.

## **Computational Biologist**

### OHSU | Casey Eye Institute 07/2018 \- 04/2020

* Extracted obscured information from messy human microbiome data by fine-tuning statistical models.

* Created a reproducible notebook-based pipeline for automated statistical analysis with custom parameters on a high-performance computing cluster and produced automated reports.

* Analyzed 16-S rRNA microbiome sequencing data by performing phylogenetic associations, diversity analysis, and multiple statistical tests to identify significant associations with age-related macular degeneration, contributing to two publications.

## **Computational Biologist**

### Oregon Health & Science University, Bioinformatics Core 11/2015 \- 06/2017

* Automated image region selection for an IHC image analysis pipeline, increasing throughput 100x and allowing high-throughput analysis for cancer research.

* Created a templated and automated pipeline to perform parameterized ChIP-Seq analysis on a high-performance computing cluster and generate automated reports.

* Programmed custom LIMS dashboard elements using R and Javascript (Plotly) for real-time visualization of cancer SMMART trials.

* Installed and managed research-oriented Linux servers and performed systems administration.

* Conducted RNA-Seq analysis.

* Mentored and trained coworkers in programming and high-performance computing.

## **IT Support Technician**

### Volpentest HAMMER Federal Training Center 08/2014 \- 11/2015

* Helped develop a ColdFusion website to publish and schedule safety courses to be used on the Hanford site.

* Vetted, selected, and managed a SAAS library management system.

* Built and managed two MS Access databases with entry forms, comprehensive reports, and a macro to email library users about their accounts.

# Education

### AAS in Computer Science 08/2013

Columbia Basin College

### Ph.D. in Physics 05/2005

Indiana University Bloomington

### Bachelor of Science in Physics 06/1998

The Evergreen State College

# Certifications

### Human Subjects Research (HSR) 11/2022 \- 11/2025

### Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) 11/2022 \- 11/2025

### Research Investigators and Key Personnel and IRB Members 01/2021 \- 01/2024

# Award

### Outstanding Graduate Student in Research 05/2005

Indiana University

# Skills

**Data Science & Engineering:** ETL, Data harmonization, SQL, Cloud (GCP), Docker, HPC (SLURM), Jupyter Notebooks, Graphics and visualization, Documentation. Containerized workflows (Docker, Singularity), statistical analysis and modeling, and mathematical modeling.

**Bioinformatics, Computational Biology,  & Genomics:** DNA/RNA sequencing (WES, WGS, DNA-Seq, RNA-Seq, ChIP-Seq, 16s rRNA), Variant calling, Microbiome analysis, Transcriptomics, DepMap, ClinVar, KEGG.

**Programming & Development:** *Expert***:** R, Bash; *Strong***:** Python, SQL, HTML/CSS/JS; *Familiar***:** Matlab, C++, Java.

**Healthcare Analytics:** ICD-10, CPT, HCPCS, CMS, SNOMED, Medicaid claims, Quality Metrics (HEDIS).

**Linux & Systems Administration:** Server configuration, Web servers, Package management, SLURM, HTCondor.

# STEM Outreach

**2016, OHSU Data Jamborees:** Organized educational events with
speakers and workshops on data analysis skills and computational
resources at OHSU. Led workshop sessions.

**1998-2007, IU Physics Department Open House:** Designed and built new
displays and activities. Participated in setup and docenting.

**2007-2008, Wonderlab:** Helped design and build exhibits for a
children's science museum in Bloomington (IN).
