content/work-samples.md, before:

Science
-----------------

-   Example of RMarkdown notebook used in my work. Experimenting with usign tabs to
    make the presentation less overwhelming. No fancy graphs, but I love the `DT` package
    download links for tables. Because it is an "html_notebook" it includes the button at
    top right to download the code.
    
    [IgA Seq Index Calculation Test](http://arielbalter.org/mywebsite/assets/explore_iga_score_ici_index.nb.html)

-   Data visualization workshop

    <https://github.com/abalter/data-viz-jamboree>

-   Tools for doing ChIP-Seq analysis

    <https://github.com/abalter/chipseq-utils>

Personal Projects
----------------

-   Got my first GitHub star on this one:

    <https://github.com/abalter/polyglottus>
    
-   Framework I designed for my website:    

    <https://github.com/abalter/attoweb>

Websites:
---------

-   Template for my personal website (yet to launch). My first Wordpress
    theme written from scratch.

    <https://www.balterdev.space/wordpress/>

-   Wordpress site for Pioneer School (Incidentally, we got PPS to back
    down. Yay!)

    <http://savepioneerschool.org/>

-   Website for my wife's business:

    <http://checkitouthomeinspection.com/>

Snippets
--------

-   Script to automate a LAMP install on Digital Ocean

    <https://github.com/abalter/install_lamp>

-   Flexbox responsive nav:

    <https://codepen.io/abalter/pen/KXjawm>

-   Dashboard of editors

    <http://plnkr.co/edit/bMDAvP6ZUhGycfqELHDX?p=preview>

-   Shopping cart

    <http://plnkr.co/edit/91FYs44DuLkS19YPLzd6?p=preview>

-   Generalized Bash getopts template. Four types of arguments: required
    takes arg, optional no arg (flag), optional takes arg, optional has
    default

    <https://gist.github.com/abalter/4f1375985b99b84e62fcc0d63ef83174>

Commit message:

Removed old and added temp sharing section

content/work-samples.md, after:

Science
-----------------

-   Data visualization workshop

    <https://github.com/abalter/data-viz-jamboree>

-   Tools for doing ChIP-Seq analysis

    <https://github.com/abalter/chipseq-utils>
    
Personal Projects
----------------

-   Got my first GitHub star on this one:

    <https://github.com/abalter/polyglottus>
    
-   Framework I designed for my website:    

    <https://github.com/abalter/attoweb>

Websites:
---------

-   Wordpress site for Pioneer School (Incidentally, we got PPS to back
    down. Yay!)

    <http://savepioneerschool.org/>

-   Website for my wife's business:

    <http://checkitouthomeinspection.com/>

Snippets
--------

-   Script to automate a LAMP install on Digital Ocean

    <https://github.com/abalter/install_lamp>

-   Generalized Bash getopts template. Four types of arguments: required
    takes arg, optional no arg (flag), optional takes arg, optional has
    default

    <https://gist.github.com/abalter/4f1375985b99b84e62fcc0d63ef83174>
    
Temp Sharing
------------

-  Some EDA on TCGA Expression
    -  [COAD](http://htmlpreview.github.io/tcga_sample_counts_EDA_short_isb-coad.nb.html)
    -  [BRCA](http://htmlpreview.github.io/)  (current problem with sample names)
    -  [KIRC](http://htmlpreview.github.io/tcga_sample_counts_EDA_short_isb-kirc.nb.html)
